Add agent DX post: Devtools advice in the age of robots (#11567)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/blog/devtools-advice-agent-llm.md

---
title: "Devtools advice in the age of robots"
date: 2025-05-23
author:
  - danilo-campos
featuredImage: >-
  https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/f_webp,h_2040,w_3627,c_fill,g_auto,q_auto/math_meme_8b0013533e
featuredImageType: full
tags:
    - Engineering
    - LLM
---

The way software gets made is changing. Developers are using LLM tools to build quick-and-dirty prototypes that test assumptions and validate demand.

> If we want our developer tools to be part of that mix, there’s some evolution to do. The robot has different needs, advantages and weaknesses from the human.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If we want our developer tools to be part of that mix, they need to evolve. The robot has different needs, advantages, and weaknesses than the human.
```

For example, here’s AI luminary Andrej Karpathy with an observation about docs:

> > […] docs also have to change in the content. Eg instead of instructing a person to go to some page and do this or that, they could show curl commands to run - actions that  are a lot easier for an LLM to carry out.

Reviewer: I'm not sure this quote actually adds anything. I don't fully understand what it means at a glance, maybe cut it and get to the point faster or fold it into the next section.

Author: We need it as a permission structure: if one of the smartest dudes in AI is saying it, then there must be a good reason to shift one's posture on DX!

This is good, but we can take it much further.

> Here’s the good news: you already know how to do it.

Author: agree, reworked

> ## Commands the agent can run

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 1. Create commands agents can run
```

`cURL` commands are a great start: you can ship them this afternoon, and you can be clever by auto-populating their values with a developer’s API keys and other details.

[Airtable](https://airtable.com/developers/web/api/introduction) is perhaps the canonical example of rich, pre-populated commands  folded into documentation. Each database gets a fully-customized reference full of example commands for every CRUD operation.

> 

Reviewer: It would be awesome to have a screenshot of what this looks like from Airtable here :)

Author: nice, agreed

In the AI age, this approach could be combined with plaintext documentation the developer can copy and paste into an agent chat. The agent would then have everything it needed to know to pull real data from a service. With this data added to the context, the agent would write much more effective code.

> But you can take it further: beyond existing CLI tools, you can [write your own](/blog/envoy-wizard-llm-agent) that specifically target agent sessions and the developers who run them. Steal our wizard code and get started.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But you can take it further: beyond existing CLI tools, you can [write your own](/blog/envoy-wizard-llm-agent) that specifically target agent sessions and the developers who run them. [Steal our wizard code](https://github.com/PostHog/wizard) and get started.
```

## Constrain the path

Human or robot, there are just so many ways to write bad code.

Our job in serving developers is to prevent this. Bad code is a landmine hidden on a developer’s path to success, waiting to detonate. Agents can introduce security vulnerabilities, ship private API keys in client code, or just make a subtly bad call that leads to data loss and instability.

No developer can know everything, so the possibility of these details being missed is ever-present, even if you’re serving a more experienced audience.

So the job becomes constraining what’s possible.

One way to do this is the same way we did it before the age of robots:

> Starter code.

Author: agree, juiced it up

> A great starter project packages a bunch of design decisions *on behalf of the developer*, robot or not. Which things happen on the client, which things happen on the server, which things are secret, how secrets are managed… a strong starter just handles these questions.

Author: and again a bit in the next graf; cleaned up now

There’s no upside to letting an agent inject a bunch of variation in that foundation. We have conventions for a reason. We have *best practices* because there are worse practices.

On this stable ground, developers and their agents can work on the final 20% of a project that *is* fully unique to their plans.

> ## Build an interface

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 3. Build an interface
```

At its best, automation relieves tedium.

When they’re set up to succeed, agents can relieve *loads* of tedium for developers, doing repetitive tasks and boring setup in a flash.

The most exotic approach we’ll nod to here is the [MCP](https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol) server: 

This is *new*, but beneath the surface, it’s not *that new*.

An MCP server creates a direct interface between your existing technology and a coding agent. It provides these surfaces:

> - [Tools](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/docs/concepts/tools): these are buttons and levers the agent can operate for the user. They might enable an agent to create, update or delete resources in a developer’s project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Tools](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/docs/concepts/tools): buttons and levers the agent can operate for the user. They might enable an agent to create, update or delete resources in a developer’s project.
```

> - [Resources](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/docs/concepts/resources): this is data the agent can use to be more effective. Maybe a dump of a database schema, or authentication keys for a project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Resources](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/docs/concepts/resources): data the agent can use to be more effective. Maybe a dump of a database schema, or authentication keys for a project.
```
